# SHELT-AIR
Air pollution control, health care, emergencies care, vulnerable population, Sustainability
Colombia has very diverse geological which combined with climatic variables, make its territory a favorable scenario for the occurrence of natural phenomenas. The UNGRD (2018) reports 401,675 people were affected by emergencies. Thus, almost 1% of the country's population in the last year was in a vulnerable condition and must be attended. Add, WHO estimates about 7 million people die each year by contaminated air exposure which implies that por-air-quality caused 4.2 million deaths (2016) and this can be aggravated for people during emergencies.
AMBIENTES PUROS IAQ has developed the first local air purification unit, for emergencies attention called SHELT-AIR (Unit of Purification for Emergencies).
SHELT-AIR is conceived as an innovative device that purifies air of common spaces destined to the location of people during emergency/evacuations states due to catastrophes or related events in temporary places (schools, courts, coliseums, etc.). In these spaces it is necessary to maintain an atmosphere free of contaminants (chemical or organic origin), odors, microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, algae, molds), VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) or other substances in the air, which may cause infections or allergies in humans.
SHELT-AIR is a simple, efficient, economical and robust technology to reduce contamination levels during evacuation and emergency states, where the population is particularly exposed and susceptible to acquiring diseases or respiratory conditions that can aggravate the state of evacuation. the population and associated health conditions. Compared with other air purification systems, SHELT-AIR is a versatile, economical and preventive system, while other systems are used once outbreaks or contamination (shock systems) appear, SHELT-AIR works continuously to prevent the proliferation of microorganisms and bad odors, appreciably improving the living and health conditions of the temporary sites destined to emergency attention of the impact population.
